Improve service documentation (#129)
eclipse-velocitas/velocitas-docs: README.md

# Velocitas-Docs

[![License: Apache](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-yellow.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

This repository contains the source code for the Velocitas Documentation.

:notebook: **Please visit the generated documentation to learn more about Velocitas!** <https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/>

## Directory structure

* Markdown files used for the generated documentation exists in the `content` folder.
* Examples shown in the documentation may exist as source code in the `examples`folder.

## Building documentation locally

If using Debian you could install Hugo like this:

`sudo apt install hugo`

For other environments please visit [Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).

Then you can build and start a local hugo server and access documentation at `http://localhost:1313`.

> `/usr/bin/hugo server -D -s .`

Reviewer: one could simply use the provided devcontainer

Author: I will try that out and if it works document it,even if I do not really agree on the "simple" part, after all it takes some time to build/connect to the devcontainer

Author: Works after some fixes. Will add some text on that as well

`Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/velocitas/ (bind address 127.0.0.1)`

### Using Native Envioronment

It is also possible to build and run the documentation outside the Devcontainer. If using Debian you could install Hugo like this:

`sudo apt install hugo`

For other environments please visit [Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).

Then you can build and start a local hugo server and access documentation at `http://localhost:1313`.

`/usr/bin/hugo server -D -s .`

If you update source pages the local server will be automatically updated.

## Deploying official documentation

The Velocitas Documentation Site is not automatically updated when something is merged to main.
Instead a Velocitas committer needs to manually run the `Publish Documentation` workflow.
That results in that the `docs` branch is updated and triggers the `pages-build-deployment` workflow that publishes the new version to the Velocitas Documentation Site.

## Theme Upgrade

Velocitas-docs use the [Docsy Theme](https://github.com/google/docsy).
To upgrade change version in [postCreateCommand.sh](.devcontainer/scripts/postCreateCommand.sh). Then rebuild the devcontainer.

> This will result in that `go.mod`and `go.sum` gets updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade you need to change the docsy version in [postCreateCommand.sh](.devcontainer/scripts/postCreateCommand.sh) and rebuild the devcontainer.
This will result in updated versions of `go.mod`and `go.sum`.
```

`Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313/velocitas/ (bind address 127.0.0.1)`

### Using Native Environment

It is also possible to build and run the documentation outside the Devcontainer. If using Debian you could install Hugo like this:

`sudo apt install hugo`

For other environments please visit [Hugo documentation](https://gohugo.io/installation/).

Then you can build and start a local hugo server and access documentation at `http://localhost:1313`.

`/usr/bin/hugo server -D -s .`

If you update source pages the local server will be automatically updated.

## Deploying official documentation

The Velocitas Documentation Site is not automatically updated when something is merged to main.
Instead a Velocitas committer needs to manually run the `Publish Documentation` workflow.
That results in that the `docs` branch is updated and triggers the `pages-build-deployment` workflow that publishes the new version to the Velocitas Documentation Site.

### Release Testing

Before deploying the official documentation by triggering the `Publish Documentation` workflow the following actions must be performed:

> * Run the hugo server on localhost and verify that appearance is similar to the [currently deployed official version](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/)
>   and that links are working as expected.
> * Upload the new `main` to a fork that you control with GitHub Pages enabled and verify that you can run the `Publish Documentation` workflow
>   and that the results is published to your pages. Use a GitHub Pages configuration where the `docs` branch is used and where the result will be available at
>   `https://<your userid or organization>.github.io/velocitas-docs/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run the hugo server on localhost
* Verify that appearance is similar to the [currently deployed official version](https://eclipse.dev/velocitas/) and links are working as expected.
* Upload the new `main` to a fork that you control with GitHub Pages enabled
* Verify that you can run the `Publish Documentation` workflow and that the result is published to your pages. Use a GitHub Pages configuration where the `docs` branch is used and where the result will be available at `https://<your userid or organization>.github.io/velocitas-docs/`.
```
